As I address the General Assembly in this Hall as President for the final time, let me recount the progress that we have made these last eight years. From the depths of the greatest financial crisis of our time, we coordinated our response to avoid further catastrophe. We have taken away terrorist safe havens, strengthened the non-proliferation regime and resolved the Iranian nuclear issue through diplomacy. We opened relations with Cuba, helped Colombia end Latin America’s longest war, and we welcome a democratically elected leader of Myanmar to this Assembly.
This is important work. It has made a real difference in the lives of our people, and it could not have happened had we not worked together. Yet around the globe we are seeing the same forces of global integration that have made us interdependent also expose deep fault lines.
A quarter century after the end of the Cold War, the world is by many measures less violent and more prosperous than ever before. Terrorist networks use social media to prey upon the minds of our youth. Powerful nations contest the constraints placed on them by international law.
I believe that as imperfect as they are, the principles of open markets, accountable governance, democracy, human rights and international law that we have forged remain the firmest foundation for human progress in this century. I make this argument not based on theory or ideology, but on facts.
A person born today is more likely to be healthy, live longer and have access to opportunity than at any time in human history. The collapse of colonialism and communism has allowed more people than ever before to live with the freedom to choose their leaders.
The number of democracies around the world has nearly doubled in the last 25 years. In remote corners of the world, citizens are demanding respect for the dignity of all people.
I say all this not to whitewash the challenges we face or to suggest complacency. We need to acknowledge these achievements in order to summon the confidence to carry this progress forward. In order to move forward, we do have to acknowledge that the existing path to global integration requires a course correction.
As these real problems have been neglected, alternative visions of the world have pressed forward both in the wealthiest countries and in the poorest. I do not believe those visions can deliver security or prosperity over the long term, but I do believe that these visions fail to recognize, at a very basic level, our common humanity.
The answer cannot be a simple rejection of global integration. Instead, we must work together to make sure that the benefits of such integration are broadly shared. This is not the place for a detailed policy blueprint.
 globalization, combined with rapid progress in technology, has also weakened the position of workers. In advanced economies like my own, unions have been undermined and many manufacturing jobs have disappeared. Mercantilist policies pursued by Governments with export-driven models threaten to undermine the consensus that underpins global trade.
A world in which 1 per cent of humankind controls as much wealth as the other 99 per cent will never be stable. We cannot unwind immigration any more than we can stuff technology back into a box. Nor can we look to failed models of the past. If we start resorting to trade wars, market- distorting subsidies and beggar-thy-neighbour policies, these approaches will make us poor collectively.
Central planned control of the economy is a dead end, says Kim Jong-un. Overreliance on natural resources instead of innovation will make us poor collectively, he says.
After the recession, the top 1% of Americans were capturing more than 90% of income growth. Today that is down to roughly half. American businesses have now created 15 million new jobs. Last year, poverty in this country fell at the fastest rate in nearly 50 years.
U.S. has worked with other nations to create higher and clearer standards for banking and taxation. A society that asks less of oligarchs than of ordinary citizens will rot from within.
Just as we benefit by combating inequality within our countries, so I believe advanced economies still need to do more to close the gap between rich and poor nations. It is difficult to spend on foreign assistance, but I do not believe this is charity. The Paris Agreement on Climate Change gives us a framework to act, but only if we scale up our ambitions.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change gives us a framework to act, but only if we scale up our ambitions. There must be a sense of urgency about bringing the Agreement into force and helping poorer countries leapfrog destructive forms of energy.
I believe in a liberal political order, an order built not just through elections and representative government, but also through respect for human rights and civil society. I recognize that not every country in this Hall is going to follow the same model of governance. I do not think that America can or should impose our system of government on other countries.
Liberal democracy will not just wash across the globe in a single wave. Building accountable institutions is hard work. The gains are often fragile. Sometimes we take one step forward and then two steps back.
 economies can only grow to a certain point until they need to open up. Without this evolution, the expectations of people will ultimately not be met. And history shows that strong men are then left with two paths: permanent crackdown or scapegoating enemies abroad.
The U.S. is a country where people feel they have a stake. Look at the transformation that has taken place in countries as different as Japan, Chile and Indonesia.
The people of Ukraine did not take to the streets because of some plot imposed from abroad. They demanded change because they saw life get better for the people in the Baltics and in Poland. Those of us who believe in democracy need to speak out forcefully.
In Europe, a well-intentioned Brussels often became too isolated from the normal push-and-pull of national politics. Too often in capitals decision-makers have forgotten that democracy needs to be driven by civic engagement from the bottom up.
We must reject any forms of fundamentalism or racism that makes our traditional identities irreconcilable with modernity. Instead, we need to embrace the tolerance that results from respect for all human beings.
Global integration has led to a collision of cultures. Trade, migration, the Internet can challenge and unsettle our most cherished identities. There is no easy answer for resolving all these social forces. We must respect the meaning that people draw from their own traditions.
I do not believe progress is possible if our desire to preserve our identities gives way to an impulse to dehumanize or dominate another group. If our religion leads us to persecute those of another faith, if we jail or beat people who are gay, if our traditions lead us to prevent girls from going to school then the fragile bonds of civilization will fray. The world is too small. We are too packed together for us to be able to resort to those old ways of thinking.
The mindset of sectarianism, extremism, blood-letting and retribution that has been taking place will not be quickly reversed. No external power is going to be able to force different religious communities or ethnic communities to coexist for long.
We have to insist that all parties recognize a common humanity and that nations end proxy wars that fuel disorder. Until basic questions are answered, the embers of extremism will continue to burn. And the world is too small for us to simply be able to buil
The world is too small for us to simply be able to build a wall and prevent it from affecting our own societies. And what is true in the Middle East is true for all of us. Surely religious traditions can be honoured and upheld while teaching young people science and math.
Israel and Palestinians will be better off if Palestinians reject incitement and recognize the legitimacy of Israel. We all have to do better as leaders in tamping down, rather than encouraging, a notion of identity that leads us to diminish others.
I believe that America has been a rare super- Power in human history insofar as it has been willing to think beyond narrow self-interest. We have strived, sometimes at great sacrifice, to align better our actions with our ideals. And as a consequence, I believe we have been a force for good.
I believe that if we are to meet the challenges of this century, we are all going to have to do more to build up international capacity. We cannot escape the prospect of nuclear war unless we all commit to stopping the spread of nuclear weapons and pursuing a world without them.
We can only eliminate extreme poverty if the Sustainable Development Goals that we have set are more than words on paper. Human ingenuity now gives us the capacity to feed the hungry and give all of our children – including our girls – the education that is the foundation for opportunity. But we have to put our money where our mouths are.
If Russia continues to interfere in the affairs of its neighbours, it is also going to diminish its stature and make its borders less secure. In the South China Sea, a peaceful resolution of disputes offered by law will mean far greater stability than the militarization of a few rocks and reefs.
We are all stakeholders in this international system, and it calls upon all of us to invest in the success of institutions to which we belong. Many nations have shown what kind of progress is possible when we make those commitments. peaceful resolution of disputes offered by law will mean far greater stability than the militarization of a few rocks and reefs.
There are a lot of nations right now that are doing the right thing, but many nations — particularly those blessed with wealth and the benefits of geography — that can do more to offer a hand. And we should all understand that, ultimately, our world will be more secure if we are prepared to help those in need and the nations that are carrying the largest burden.
Big countries for most of history have pushed smaller ones around. Tribes, ethnic groups and nation States have often found it most convenient to define themselves by what they hate and not just those ideas that bind them together.
Time and again, human beings have believed that they finally arrived at a period of enlightenment only to then repeat cycles of conflict and suffering. We have to remember that the choices of individual human beings led to repeated world war, but we also have toRemember that we created the United Nations so that a war like that would never happen again. Each of us as leaders and each nation can choose to reject those who appeal to our worst impulses.
I have seen that spirit in our young people, who are more educated and more tolerant, more inclusive, more diverse and more creative than our generation. And, yes, some of that comes with the idealism of youth, but it also comes with young people’s access to information about other peoples and places.
I draw strength from the young Americans — entrepreneurs, activists, soldiers, new citizens — who are remaking our nation once again. I think of the girls who have braved taunts or violence just to go to school in Afghanistan, and the university students who started programmes online to reject the extremism of organizations like ISIL.
As President, I have learned that our identities do not have to be defined by putting someone else down, but can be enhanced by lifting somebody else up. The embrace of these principles as universal does not weaken my particular pride in or my particular love for America — it strengthens it.
This is what I believe — that all of us can be co-workers with God. And our leadership, and our Governments, and the United Nations should reflect this irreducible truth.